>> Astral travel gives us a way
to explore and experience this
multi-dimensional reality.
Through learning this art,
we can strengthen our focus
and become more aware.
We already have this
ability innate within us.
We just need to remember
it and become conscious
of the process of
actually doing it.
>> Imagine having the ability
to travel vast distances beyond
the earthly bounds of
your physical body.
Astral travelers and
out of body experiencers
have claimed just this ability.
If these claims are
true, how would one
achieve an out of
body experience?
And what might the benefits be?
[MUSIC PLAYING]
In 1966, Dr. Charles
Theodore Tart
conducted a study
on a woman while she
left her body during sleep.
While out of body,
her objective was
to read a number about
1.5 meters above her head
that was illegible from
her physical position.
Not only was she able to
identify the correct number,
but her brainwave patterns
during the experiment
were different than any
other state of consciousness.
Another experiment by Janet
Lee Mitchell and Karlis Osis
studied clairvoyant
Ingo Swann and revealed
that he correctly identified
eight out of eight target
observations while out of body.
The probability of this
occurring by chance
was 1 in 40,000.
In the general population,
about 1 in 10 people
have claimed to have an
out of body experience
at one point in their lives.
This experience of
leaving the body
is called an out
of body experience
or OBE, which is
sometimes described
as a separation of one's astral
form from their physical body.
This experience is
commonly referred
to as astral projection.
>> Once I'm out of my body,
there's no such thing as time
or space.
So we can jump
through timelines.
We can jump through dimensions.
And there's many
different levels
of experience in those realms.
>> But besides having an
experience where you can fly
anywhere or any time you want,
what are some of the other
benefits you can get
from this practice?
According to a survey, 86% of
399 out of body participants
had a greater
awareness of reality.
>> Your whole reality changes.
Your perception of
reality changes.
What's important to you changes.
And your emphasis and
through life changes.
Your trajectory in life
changes, because you're
no longer obsessed with
the acquisition of things.
>> Another claimed benefit by
astral travelers is a decreased
fear of death due to the
realization of our immortality.
>> My fear of death
is completely gone.
I know, because you know from
experience, we're immortal.
We're powerful.
We create our own realities.
>> Other claims from OBEs
include increased psychic
abilities, the ability to
time travel and visit other
dimensions, spontaneous
healing, meeting dead relatives
and spirit guides, and
increased spirituality.
>> I have been to other
planets, other dimensions,
other timelines,
and parallel earths.
This is not only astral travel
but this is astral time travel.
I'm being placed in a
different timeline of Earth.
>> Sometimes when people
have out of body experiences,
for example, they meet relatives
that have already passed away.
If they were missing
them a lot, they realize
or they can verify it by
themselves in the practice,
my relative is there.
>> Beliefs are no longer
needed, because you know--
you move from being a
believer to a knower.
And that's a huge shift.
>> People who astral project
also report accelerated
personal development and
obtaining of personal answers,
such as who am I,
what is my purpose,
and what is the meaning of life.
>> I want to know absolutely
know where I'm going,
what that reality is like.
I want to know
where I come from.
I want to know what
my real trajectory is,
what's my evolution, and where
am I headed, why am I here.
I want to know it all.
>> Robert Allen Monroe wrote
"Journeys Out of The Body"
in 1971, popularizing the
term out of body experience.
In 1974, he founded the Monroe
Institute, an organization
dedicated to conducting
seminars in the exploration
of human consciousness.
The Monroe Institute
outlines several strategies
for out of body consciousness.
One of the most important
things to remember
is to remain calm
during sleep paralysis.
Sleep paralysis is a prelude.
If you know how to
stay calm and know
how to do the right
procedure, you
can easily initiate an
out of body experience.
>> Next time that it
happens, try to stay calm,
try to stay relaxed, and
then just think about rolling
outside your body.
>> You are mentally rolling.
And that's one of
the procedures people
use to initiate a
fully conscious out
of body experience.
>> Astral travel is
deemed safe by experts,
as long as you keep yourself
at a high vibration.
It is suggested
that you don't want
to try it when you are feeling
low vibration emotions,
such as fear and anger.
This can take you to
a lower astral plane
that resonates with the lower
emotions of the beings that
reside there.
However, if you do find
yourself in one of these places,
stay calm and start having
positive thoughts and emotions
to raise your vibration enough
to go into another dimension.
>> Well, one common fear that
people have with astral travel
is related to the myth
of the silver cord.
There's a lot of
literature out there
that says that when
we astral travel,
there is the silver cord
that connects us to our body.
The fear is that if the
silver cord was ever severed,
we could lose our way.
And if we're unable to get
our way back to our body,
we might die.
But not to worry,
this is a myth.
The fear has been
used to scare people
from ever trying the art
of astral travel, which
is a huge disservice.
We are multi-dimensional.
We are eternal beings.
We have never been born.
And therefore, we can never die.
>> Out of body experiences, as
mystical as they might seem,
have scientific evidence to
suggest that they might be very
real.
There are many claimed
benefits of the practice,
but what seems to be universal
across all astral travel
is learning more about your
personal human experience
and the world that we
live in and beyond.
>> The old concepts
of body, mind,
spirit or primitive
and inaccurate.
We are a
multi-dimensional beings.
We exist on many
different dimensions.
And when you have an
out of body experience,
you're shifting
your consciousness
into an energy body that is
already an aspect of us of,
of all of us.
>> So travel is a tool to awaken
ourselves so fully that we
develop deeper connection
to our multi-dimensionality.
We learn about ourselves
and our purpose.
And we can take what
we learn from it
and then put it into
service in this world.